**Tracker Component Library Release 2.0, August 2016**
https://github.com/DavidFCrouse/Tracker-Component-Library

These are the release notes for the second release of the Tracker Component
Library. The Tracker Component Library is a collection of Matlab routines
(some written inC/C++ requiring compilation compilation) for simulating and
tracking targets in various scenarios. Due to the complexity of the target
tracking problem, a great many routines can find use in other areas
including combinatorics, astronomy, and statistics.

Those looking to get a quick idea of a very simple end-to-end tracking
algorithm (track initiation, data association, maintenance, and
termination) might want to look at
./Sample Code/Basic Tracking Examples/demo2DIntegratedDataAssociation.m
to see an example of a complete GNN-JIPDAF tracker run on a simple 2D
tracking scenario, which can be easily transformed into a normal JIPDAF
by changing a single parameter. The tracker is made from the modular
components of the library and adapting the tracker to 3D and other
scenarios is as simple as changing the proper components. A lot of other
sample code is also provided to demonstrate the use of other parts of the
library.

Due to GitHub's limit that files not exceed 100MB, the ephemeris data file
for the astronomical code has been omitted. To use any of the files
requiring planetary ephemerides, such as solarBodyVec.m, please download
the file de430.bsp from
http://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/generic_kernels/spk/planets/ and place it
in the folder "Astronomical Code/data".

COMPILED CODE:

The library has been tested under Matlab2016a for Windows 7 and Mac OS X
10.10. However, most of it should work under other versions of Matlab and
under other operating systems.  To use the full library, add the library
and all of its subfolders to your active path in Matlab. Some functions are
available as C/C++ files for use in Matlab either because they use third-
party libraries or because the native Matlab implementations provided are
too slow to use. If the library was downloaded without precompiled versions
of these files, then they can be compiled by running the CompileCLibraries
function. Note that a C/C++ compiler supported by Matlab must be
installed. Additionally, to decode AIS data, the compiler must support
C++11. As thie commands for the compilation of the AIS data are at the end
of the CompileCLibraries function,

EXTERNAL SOLVERS:

The folder
./Mathematical Functions/Polynomials/Generic Multivariate Polynomials/
contains the function solvePolySysWithExtProg. This is an interface to
external solvers for simultaneous multivariate polynomial systems. The
solvers are external programs and are not included. Though the functions
polyRootsMultiDim and solveQuadBivarEq can solver certain types of
simultaneous multivariate polynomials, they are limited. For more general
systems, an external solver is the best choice. The functions
polyMeasConvert, polyMeasConvertAsync, and DopplerOnlyInit6D are located in
subfolders entitled 'Uses External Solver" and use the function
solvePolySysWithExtProg. Supported external solvers for the function
solvePolySysWithExtProg are PHCpack, Bertini, and the certified solver in
Macaulay2. Note that Macaulay2 tends to fail more often than the other
solvers.

The solvers can be downloaded from:
PHCpack for Mac OS X, Windows and Linux:
http://homepages.math.uic.edu/~jan/download.html
Bertini (version 1.5) for Mac OS X and Linux and Windows, only with Cygwin:
https://bertini.nd.edu/download.html
Macaulay2 for Mac OS X, Linux, and Windows:
http://www.math.uiuc.edu/Macaulay2/

For the external solvers to work, they need to be added to the search path
used in Matlab so that the phs/bertini/m2 commands can be called using the
system command in Matlab.

DATA SOURCES:

If the library was downloaded without associated data files for solar
system ephemerides as well as magnetic, gravitational and terrain models,
then the relevant data files will have to be downloaded The original 
sources of the data are:

1) Earth2014 terrain model:
https://geodesy.curtin.edu.au/research/harmonic/
The files Earth2014.BED2014.degree2160.bshc,
Earth2014.ICE2014.degree2160.bshc, Earth2014.RET2014.degree2160.bshc,
Earth2014.SUR2014.degree2160.bshc, Earth2014.TBI2014.degree2160.bshc should
be placed into ./Terrain/data . Though data files to degree and order
10,800 are also available, they are not currently supported as the function
spherHarmonicEval does not use extended precision arithmetic, which is
required to avoid overflows when using the model.

1) EGM2008 terrain model (The DTM2006.0 model):
http://earth-info.nga.mil/GandG/wgs84/gravitymod/egm2008/first_release.html
The file Coeff_Height_and_Depth_to2190_DTM2006.0 should be placed into 
./Terrain/data . The first time using the getEGM2008TerrainCoeffs function
will be significantly slower than subsequent calls, assuming the full model
is loaded the first time.

4) The EMM2015 magnetic field coefficients:
https://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/geomag/EMM/
The coefficients are included with the software that is provided. The files
having names like EMM2015.COF and EMM2000.COF should all be zipped into an
archive with the name EMM_Coefficients.zip and placed in ./Magnetism/data .
The files with names like EMM2015SV.COF andEMM2000SV.COF should all be
zipped into an archive with the name EMM_Secular_Variations.zip and placed
into ./Magnetism/data . If all of the data for a single year is loaded,
then a .mat file containing the data is placed in  the data folder to speed
up subsequent calls to the function.

5) The IGRF12 magnetic field coefficients:
http://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/IAGA/vmod/igrf.html
The file http://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/IAGA/vmod/igrf12coeffs.txt can be
downloaded and placed into the folder ./Magnetism/data .

6) The WMM magnetic field coefficients:
https://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/geomag/WMM/soft.shtml
The coefficient file WMM2015COF.zip shown be downloaded, unzipped and the
file WMM.COF placed into ./Magnetism/data .

7) EGM2008 gravitational coefficients
http://earth-info.nga.mil/GandG/wgs84/gravitymod/egm2008/egm08_wgs84.html
Download the file  EGM2008_to2190_TideFree.gz, which is under "EGM2008 Tide
Free Spherical Harmonic Coefficients". Decompress the file and place it in
./Gravity/data .

8) EGM96 gravitational coefficients
http://earth-info.nga.mil/GandG/wgs84/gravitymod/egm96/egm96.html
The file egm96.z should be downloaded and decompressed, resulting in a file
names egm96 without an extension, which should be placed in
./Gravity/data .

9) EGM2008 parameters needed to convert height anomalies to geoid
   undulations:
http://earth-info.nga.mil/GandG/wgs84/gravitymod/egm2008/egm08_wgs84.html
The "Correction Model" file Zeta-to-N_to2160_egm2008.gz should be
downloaded, ungzipped and placed in ./Gravity/data .

10) EGM96 parameters needed to convert height anomalies to geoid
   undulations:
http://earth-info.nga.mil/GandG/wgs84/gravitymod/egm96/egm96.html
The file corrcoef.z should be decompressed and placed in ./Gravity/data .

11) NASA JPL's GL0900C gravitational model of the Moon
http://pds-geosciences.wustl.edu/missions/grail/default.htm
Download the file jggrx_0900c_sha.tab and place it in ./Gravity/data .

12) The FES2004 tide model of the effects of ocean Earth tides.
http://maia.usno.navy.mil/conv2010/convupdt/convupdt_c6.html
The file fes2004_Cnm-Snm.dat should be downloaded and placed in
./Gravity/Tides/data .

13) The DE430 planetary/solar ephemerides
http://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/generic_kernels/spk/planets/
Place the file de430.bsp in ./Astronomical Code/data .

14) The DE 421 Lunar ephemerides
http://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/generic_kernels/pck/
The file file moon_pa_de421_1900-2050.bpc should be downloaded and placed
in ./Astronomical Code/data .

15) The definitions of the lunar coordinate systems in the DE 421 
http://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/generic_kernels/fk/satellites/
The file moon_080317.tf should be downloaded and placed in
./Astronomical Code/data .
 
16) The Hipparcos 2 Star Catalog
http://cdsarc.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/Cat?I/311
Place the file hip2.dat in ./Astronomical Code/data .
